>> Richard Feldman: To the code!
For a real-world example.
Pun intended, because this is
the real-world SPA example.
All right, so, for an example of and
then, I want to look at our, whoops.
>> Richard Feldman: ISO 8601, so
we mentioned previously that we have
this notion of ISO 8601 encoded dates.
This is in the previous section,
we talked about this.
So this is a string format, and
we have a library called Iso8601,
which converts from those date
strings to the POSIX timestamp,
which is what we actually wanna
store in our model, okay?
So right here, we have a little
helper function that decodes it,
because we want to expose
an iso8601Decoder.
The way that it works is,
it is a two-step process.
First, we say Decode.string because we
know it's going to be a string coming
from the server.
And then we pipe that to Decode.andThen,
a function named fromString
which is our little helper here.
fromString takes the ISO 8601 string
which we've successfully decoded,
but at this point,
all we know is it's some sort of string.
We don't actually know if
it's got a date in there.
If it's got a date,
we don't know if it's malformed.
We don't know anything about it,
other than that it is a string.
So then we call Iso8601.toTime which
takes a string and returns a result.
So in the Ok branch of that result, we've
got a successValue which is a Time.Posix.
And in the Err case,
we have a fail, which is to say that
something didn't work out above the date.
And here we're calling it Decode.succeed,
on the success branch,
with the successful value,
which is to say, the POSIX timestamp.
And the Err branch, we're just sort of
disregarding whatever failure string that
it gave us, because we don't really care.
And we're just saying yeah,
that was an invalid date of some sort, so
we're failing decoding.
So this is an example of our using
Decode.andThen as a way to turn
a successful string decoding into
a potential overall decoding failure.
Because this decoder's job is not
just to give us a string, but
to give us an actual POSIX timestamp.
Now in some cases we might be doing
additional validation that's sort of
optional in the sense that that
validation might be on top of what we're
normally doing.
I wanna check that the string is
not empty, something like that.
In this case,
we don't really have a choice.
How can we possibly give it a valid
time.Posix value from a string
without handling both of
these possibilities, right?
Iso8601.toTime gives us back a result.
So if we didn't wanna use decode.andThen,
I mean,
how do we possibly map that
to a successful value?
We need, in some way,
to handle this error case.
And if we weren't using decode.andThen,
we'd be forced to succeed.
And say something like, I don't know,
assume it's the epic, which would be
much worse than failing the decoding,
which is a much more accurate
representation of what's going on here.
So we can see in this simple
example on the screen,
sort of the power of decode.andThen.
Not only could be from here, say success.
We could actually do this
again if we wanted to.
We could pipe this right here, because
this is a decoder, to decode.andThen and
just keep going.
We can create an entire branching
conditional system of decoders that checks
one after the other.
And makes sure that all of them pass,
every single one of them,
those additional validations
that we want to perform,
before ultimately resolving
to this one decoder.
And all that logic is going to be wrapped
up inside of that one decoder value.
And anybody who is using it doesn't
necessarily need to know all of the hoops
it's jumping through to make sure
that this data is actually okay.
We can also note that it's entirely
possible that we could implement
decode.map in terms of decode.andThen.
It essentially has the same semantics,
except that you always succeed.
So if we wanted to, yeah,
that would be no problem.
If we ever use a library that implements
something like andThen with those same
semantics, I don't know, I really wish
this library gave me map, but it doesn't.
Well, the good news is you
can implement it yourself.
And that it's so
powerful that it's actually capable of
implementing map in terms of itself.